hey everyone welcome back lazla
montgomery here with china history
podcast episode 248
part five of this history of xinjiang
series
still early in the game the people
living out in these
oasis cities and kingdoms at this time
in its history are still predominantly
indo-european and indo-ironic people
as it had been for the past several
thousand years
the turks haven't shown up yet and islam
you know the prophet won't be born till
570 towards the end of the
northern and southern dynasties period
but don't worry
islam will make its way to the basins of
xinjiang and that'll be it
for buddhism and manichaeism in this
part of the world
last time we took a quick glance at a
few of the kingdoms of the southern and
eastern part of the taram basin and as
advertised last episode we're going to
finish off with one more
important kingdom and then we'll move on
to the arrival of the gerk turks
but before we do that let me just add
something i wanted to try and
squeeze in last episode in part four but
decided to let it slide till this one
this wasn't exclusive to turpan but it
was one other thing about the place that
i found terribly interesting and worth
mentioning
this was the famous cares canal system
they invented all those centuries ago
way before zhang chen
and the han chinese or even the xiongnu
i mentioned these kanats or karez and
the
old silk road series i did from way back
when
these caras or kanats were these
underground
aqueducts that were first designed by
iranian engineers as much as
3 000 years ago turpan
was a thriving city but they didn't have
any of the great rivers that allowed
places like hotan
kashgar kucha lolan and other oasis
kingdoms to grow and prosper
its location was close to the mountains
but there was no convenient river
that the melting snows had carved out
like in all those other places that
might bring life to a city how to get
that melt water to ancient juice sure
well homo sapiens of this region with
their vertical foreheads and extra-large
brains figured out a workaround
these ancient civil engineers devised a
brilliant system that utilized the power
of gravity to bring water from the
mountains to the settled lands below
where one could support agriculture and
human life
they dug an underground horizontal
tunnel
that would link up with the water table
and then perpendicular to this
underground horizontal tunnel
would be a series of wells and the
distinguishing feature of the
kanats would be these well if you saw
them they look like big mole hills or
these
mini volcanoes that stretched along the
aqueducts that were constructed
and you would just drop your bucket or
whatever down these wells and you'd be
able to get as much fresh
cool mountain water as you needed and it
could be a hundred degrees in turpon but
that water below the surface was just as
cold as it was when it melted
the cannot system is still around today
and aside from providing water to the
cities around turpan it provides plenty
of employment to
locals to maintain them and keep them
from clogging up
and one other thing before we move on
one of the other top attractions of
turpon are the hoyanchan
or flaming mountains just to the east
of turpan mother nature did a real nice
job in the artistic way these
red sandstone hills were eroded into
these really cool shapes
this little corner of xinjiang is one of
the hottest spots in all of china
regularly getting up to the 120s the
chinese city of gaochang was built not
too far from the foot
of these flaming mountains this little
mountain range got its name from the
color of the mountains when the
sun hit them a certain way anyway
i'm only mentioning this because this
place was immortalized in chapter 60
of the shiyouji journey to the west
one of the four great classical novels
of china
there's a whole story of sun woo kong
the monkey king and his adventures and
these
flaming mountains all part of the lore
of this
turpan culture and history
okay let's leave the turpan basin and
return to the taran basin and look at uh
one more important and once great
ancient city this was kucha kucha
or chiyotsu i mentioned in part three
this is where banyon
son of banchao set up the han
protectorate
kucha was one of the cities along the
northern route of the silk road
right on a major tributary of the tarim
river
kucha like all the cities mentioned
before
will keep hearing them over and over
throughout the series
that's where all the action takes place
in xinjiang's long history
this place had a very strong indian and
buddhist tradition
kucha in particular was noted in history
as a cultural
wonderland it became famous throughout
china for its
music dance and most importantly as one
of the leading
buddhist centers in china the people of
kucha were indo-european and spoke one
of the
tokarian languages called kuchin
kucha is always referred to in history
books as
an ancient buddhist kingdom kuchin monks
had been bringing buddhist teachings to
china from india and central asia
since the 3rd century 200 years after
buddhism had first trickled into china
during the first century ce
and a good 500 years after siddhartha
gautama's time on this earth
kucha's most famous son i'm thinking it
would have to be kumarajeeva
who the chinese knew is jiomolosher
he lived from 344 to 413
right smack dab in the middle of the
sixteen kingdoms period
his parents were both extremely devout
buddhists
during the mid-fourth century as a
youngster
kumarajeeva's mother took him to kashmir
a major buddhist center back then where
he remained for a year
no doubt learning from the best age 12
he journeyed up to turpan there he
continued his buddhist education
and over the course of his early life
this prodigy became
renowned throughout the land for his
insight
and for his translations and
interpretation of the buddhist sutras
from their original sanskrit to chinese
and so great became his renown that in
the year 379
kumarajeeva's fame and repute reached
the former qin
imperial court in changhan and this king
a former qin was one of those occasional
rulers who took to buddhism in a
very big way and became a kind of
sponsor
who used his authority and power to blow
a huge gust of wind
into the sails of buddhism's propagation
into china proper
the king had somehow heard of
kumarajeeva and wanted to
i don't know i guess happen for himself
so he called upon one of his warriors to
lead an expedition out west to xinjiang
to kucha to locate this renowned
buddhist monkey
bring him back to the capitol in cheng
on
this is the story of liu guang now if li
guang's name doesn't ring a bell he's
perhaps better known as emperor iwoo
founder of the later liang dynasty he
came from the d
people one of these woohoo barbarians
more about that in a minute
a quick word first about the former qin
they were one of these so-called 16
kingdoms that existed up in the
northernmost part of china
304-439 fall of the western jinn
to the unification of north china under
the northern way
who we mentioned at the end of last
episode
the shenbei dynasty who were the
on-again off-again foes of the rohran
the 16 kingdoms is the period we're
entering now part of the
messy and complicated period between the
han and the sway
the former qin had their day in the sun
in 376
when they unified north china into one
entity
however the dynasty was kaput by 394
other than maintaining their capital at
cheng on
they had nothing in common with the qin
dynasty of 221 bce
and xinsure huang fame so let's get back
to our story
in the year 383 the former qin emperor
sent liu guang on this
mission to go bring kumarajeeva back to
chiang and if he could conquer any of
these
silk road trading kingdoms and turn on
the tribute spigot
yeah all the better so in an age-old
tradition
liu guang led a hundred thousand troops
to the western region
li guang made his way to kucha and with
an overwhelming show of force
got them to submit to his king in former
qin
and in the process liuguang accumulated
massive amounts of booty and tribute he
was able to track down kumarajeeva
it wasn't a difficult person to find and
he took this famous
monk into custody and though was not a
practitioner of buddhism he kept his
prized possession
close to his chest but in the midst of
this mission
the former qin dynasty collapsed and
broke up into three pieces
and liu kwang figured well seeing how
the political situation had taken such a
drastic turn
though there was no need to rush back to
chiang and deliver kumarajiva
so he continued to hold on to him and
riding so high in the saddle like he was
this is when liu guang began having
these ambitious thoughts about
maybe getting his own dynasty up and
running and in 386 he did just that
and he founded the later liang dynasty
the lands of the later liang were
located in good old gansu province with
its capital at gutong
which is today's city of
[Music]
our country it was written that so great
were the riches
liu kuang had seized in kucha he needed
twenty thousand camels to
transport it all back east anyway liu
guang
or emperor e wu he didn't get to enjoy
being the founding emperor for too long
and died in 400
and his three sons like with most of
these dynasties of the sixteen kingdoms
couldn't hold the family enterprise
together for too long it only took a few
years after the death of the founder
and that was it for the later liang you
know there are so many
liang dynasties in ancient chinese
history besides this one the
later liang of 386 to 403 there were
others
liang state from the spring and autumn
period the former liang that preceded
liu kuang's later liang
there was also the southern northern and
western liang
and another western liang from the
northern and southern dynasties
and a second later liang that followed
the ball of the tang dynasty
different character liang though you
need to keep a cheat sheet folded up in
your wallet to keep them straight
i'm sure it won't surprise you to know
that the former qin dynasty was
followed by the later qin dynasty and
this dynasty too had another great and
historic champion of buddhism whose
embrace of this faith
was so strong under his sponsorship
nearly all the lands of later qin
adopted buddhism this was the heavenly
king
yao shing he reigned 394-416
and he too was hot to get kumarajeeva in
his capital
and despite all the polite requests and
urgency
he couldn't get the later liang to give
kumarajiva
up so heavenly king yao shing got tired
of waiting and he sent a team to go
snatch
kumarajeeva who was still being held by
the descendants of liuguang
and in 401 they went in and took him
and these later qin soldiers brought the
famous kumarajeeva
to changhan there he got as big and
enthusiastic a welcome as the fab four
did when they landed at jfk
1563 years later
he was the toast of the town and with
the later qin heavenly king
yao xing as his benefactor kumarajeeva
was able to give buddhism in china
one gargantuan great leap forward
he ushered in what can be called china's
first
golden age of buddhism fifth century ce
his work as a translator is legendary
kumarajeeva is credited with being
perhaps the first translator of both the
diamond
and lotus sutras if you remember from
past chp episodes you no doubt remember
how confucianism
had become institutionalized during the
han dynasty
and then after the han fell it was
buddhism's turn to take china by storm
amongst the masses and within the
imperial court
and starting right about here
those two entities confucianism and
buddhism
well they had a heck of a rivalry that
lasted clear through to the remainder of
chinese imperial history and when this
giant
of buddhism kumarajeeva after he left
changhan
and made his triumphant return back to
kucha after his time
in china he had rock star status
in his own day he was wildly popular and
revered for his teachings and his
mastery of this religion and way of life
contemporary with kumura jiva or jomo
asher
was one of the other renowned buddhist
monks of this time who wandered all
throughout xinjiang this was the jin
dynasty adventurer monk
fashion like huachubing and wei ching
the
conquering generals for han wudi the
monk fashion
also came from historic linfun city
in shanxi province i mentioned
the jin dynasty monk because
contemporaneous with the 16 kingdoms was
the eastern jinn
should have been called the southern
jinn because the han rulers of the
founding summa family
had evacuated their capital up in cheng
on and fled
south to jienkong modern-day nanjing
and as i said the north of china was
abandoned to these
wuhu or five barbarian tribes who
brought us the sixteen kingdoms so
fashion came from this part of china
now we remember fashion for his
pilgrimage to the west between 399
and 412 where he sought out buddhist
scriptures that he might study
and bring back to china fashion had set
out in the year 399
and passed through xinjiang that same
year
over the next 13 years he traveled to
india
sri lanka and java just as he left
dunwang and wandered beyond the jade
gate into xinjiang
fashion had written of these lands this
way quote
amidst these rivets of sand are evil
spirits and hot winds
all who encounter them perish no birds
fly above
no beasts walk below one gazes all
around as far as the eye can see
hoping to find a place to cross but can
choose none
the bleached bones of the dead provide
the only sign
end quote fascian he walked a whole
route
the silk rose and he passed through all
of these places
i've mentioned and wrote about them and
today a lot of what we hang our hat on
as far as the history of xinjiang during
that
first golden age of buddhism fourth and
fifth centuries
comes from fashion and his book that
miraculously managed to survive
into our time after he returned to china
fashion settled down in nanjing and 412
and wrote a travelogue of his journeys
called
a record of buddhist kingdoms good old
folk g
i will have a link at the show notes of
the english text
of fashion's book courtesy of the great
people at project gutenberg
fashion wasn't the first to make these
kinds of pilgrimages
i mentioned kumarajeeva went to kashmir
but
fashion was the first to make it all the
way to india and
bring back all of these buddhist
scriptures to china
it was already a thing for many of the
faithful to visit these lands
closer to the source from where buddhism
sprang
fascian is the most famous one from this
time and
how his book managed to survive into our
day is nothing short of a miracle
it provides eyewitness accounts of so
many of these places in xinjiang that
we've looked at so far
many more buddhist faithful followed
fashion in these travels from china
to india and back following the silk
road trade routes that have been around
since
the 2nd century bce and starting
right about here in the 4th and 5th
centuries
anyone riding their camel along these
silk roads
would encounter just as many buddhist
pilgrims as
saudi and traders in the beginning
the silk roads began as trading routes
but now it was also this human highway
where buddhist pilgrims traveled these
east-west pathways that had brought
distant civilizations together for
centuries
and facilitated the dissemination of
buddhism and
heaven only knows how many other good
ideas and innovations
when we get to the 7th century and the
commencement of the tang dynasty
we'll take a look at another of the
celebrated monk
adventurers of ancient china this was
shenzhen
immortalized in the da tang ji the great
tang
records of the western regions and that
mid
7th century book it became the main
inspiration for the classic novel
shiyogi journey to the west
our xinjiang story really starts to take
off when we get to the suez and tang
dynasties
but before we get there we have to first
talk about the biggest
player of them all to date to enter the
xinjiang space
these were the turks now most of you
already know the official name
today of this land we're discussing is
the xinjiang
uyghur autonomous region and it's well
known that the uyghurs are turks
but what are they doing in xinjiang so
far away from turkey
well there's more to the turks than
turkey
and the turkish people who lived there
those
modern day turks only arrived in
anatolia or asia minor
around the 11th century with the rise of
the celtic turks before the turkish
people began populating the anatolian
peninsula
there were the hittites assyrians
alexander the great
eastern roman empire and many others
not so well known well from these parts
at least
is that the most ancient homeland of the
turks
is central asia and they came from an
area
often referred to as turkistan these are
the lands of present-day
uzbekistan kazakhstan turkmenistan
kyrgyzstan azerbaijan and of course the
uyghurs and xinjiang the term turk
can refer to both the turkish people of
the great nation of turkey
and also for the turkic people who are
ethnic turks but
not necessarily turkish in history books
sometimes the term is differentiated to
t-u-r-k
for the nation of turkey and the turkish
people and t-u-r-k
with the umlaut over the u for the
turkic people
who all share that common origin
somewhere unknown but surely on the
great eurasian step
and just as it is with practically all
of these nomadic people who lived
between
manchuria and the caspian sea no one
knows with
absolute certainty where the original
homeland is for the turks
except to say it was somewhere in
mongolia or maybe just west of there
up to now we've been talking about the
inhabitants in xinjiang who were
indo-european who spoke indo-european
languages
well the language of the turks came from
the altaic branch
same as the mongols and japanese and
korean also
got thrown into this branch of leftover
languages from north of the all time
mountains
as i mentioned before it's thought that
perhaps the xiongnu
were a turkic people but alas no smoking
gun found
yet these various turkic tribes
they had rather humble beginnings as one
of those tribes under the political
thumb of the rohran kaganet
the official history say that these
turks serve the rhoran nation
as blacksmiths and metal workers makers
of weapons
there wasn't one single tribe of turks
they were spread out in various parts of
central asia but the ones we're most
concerned about
are the gerk turks or gok turks as they
were called in my
old high school history class they were
also known as
the blue turks sky turks and the
celestial turks
the chinese called them the tuji
these gurk turks they were the ones who
plowed the rohran under
and like the xiongnu shenbei and rohran
they too had their charismatic strong
man who united them and drove them to
greatness
this person was boomin kagan and mander
and he was known as
he had been the one to organize his
people
build an army and when the time was
right
he led this army to victory over the
rohran this was in 552
and right after tasting victory
boomin died he came from the asher not
tribe in this group it was sort of like
what the ice and gurus were to the qing
the ruling house the aristocrats of the
turks
most of these turkic leaders and
soldiers who i'll be mentioning
all came from this asher not tribe
like these other conquering people of
mongolia and central asia
this nation builders progeny carried the
torch forward and before long the gurk
turks were the dominant power stretching
from
manchuria in the east all the way to the
black sea
which as you know were more or less the
same lands once conquered by the xiongnu
and shenbe not to mention others to
follow
next up for the gerk turks after putting
away the roron were the heptalights
in and around bactria between the
amudaria in the north
and the hindu kush in the south and they
were dealt a defeat
in 557 five years after the death of
boomin
as far as chinese history goes the
watershed year
came 24 years later in the familiar year
of 581
the year yangqin founded the sway
dynasty
this way it didn't last terribly long
but yangjin was credited with uniting
china
following a rough three and a half
centuries of the three kingdoms the jinn
the sixteen kingdoms and the northern
and southern dynasties
yang-jin who we also remember as the
founding emperor suey wendy
was a master manipulator when it came to
the gerk turks
the first turkic kagonit that boomin had
created
only took about 25 years before the
infighting started to tear things apart
from within
this was from 552 to 581 and when yang
jin was
putting the final touches on his new
dynasty
he resorted to the always effective
tried and true political tactic
of taking advantage of internal
political divisions amongst the gerk
turks and playing
one side off against the other and
inserting himself
into their struggle the gerk turks were
a much more powerful group militarily
than what sway wendy
had at that moment but he was as
familiar as anyone about this
menace to the north and he knew how to
rile them up to his advantage
the upshot to this was a civil war that
broke out amongst the gerk turks and it
resulted in the empire
splitting up into two easier to manage
kagonits
the eastern and western the dong
and the eastern and western turks
the eastern turkic haganette was sort of
primus enter paris between the two
and their leader was called the kagan or
or emperor
their territory stretched from manchuria
to western mongolia
and was ruled by the descendants of
bhuman's asher na
house in the western turkic kagan at the
one we're more concerned with
well that was ruled by the descendants
of boomin's brother
ishtani ishtani had been sent west by
boomin to manage that part of the new
empire
and it was this brother of boomin who
had teamed up with the sassanid persians
to put the hephthalites away in
557. now in the western kagane
their leader was not called the kagan
his title was the yabgu
or in chinese the yeah they were mostly
based in
present-day kazakhstan now as the power
of the gurk turks increased and with the
roron and hep the lights out of the way
that allowed these western turks to
become the next
hegemon of the tauren basin which
allowed them to feast
on all that wealth that emanated from
those kingdoms
these silk road oasis states
they never caught a break these western
turks wasted no time in muscling in on
all the
silk road trade and getting a piece of
all that action
so ishtani was the first yabgo of the
west and his son
tardu or tardush was the second
beginning in 575
and not long after yang jin founded the
sway dynasty the kagan in the east died
followed by the inevitable power
struggle and once this happened
tardu over in the western qaganet saw an
opening to get a leg up on the eastern
gherk turks
when they were busy dealing with their
new leadership
issues tardu sent an emissary to yangjin
emperor wen of sway then tardu
cozied up to sway china and yang jin as
i said never wanted to miss
an opportunity used this new
relationship or alliance
and inserted himself into
gurk-turk politics and was able to
manipulate the two sides again
to the advantage of his budding dynasty
so right here i guess you could say in
the 580s
is where the turks start to exert some
influence in
chinese politics and vice versa and to
the china
imperial court these turks began to have
a few
good uses and over the next century or
so
the turks and chinese
sort of develop a kind of symbiotic
relationship
for a while and the relationship was by
no means limited to just politics
these gerk turks they had a hell of a
culture and did it
ever take northern china by storm
especially among the aristocracy and
elites
during the tang dynasty turkish culture
was
all the rage and for good reason too
before we move on to lyraen lee sharmin
and the tang dynasty that they
co-founded
let's look at the sway and the western
part of their empire
like the han empire the geography of the
sway
also had that narrow panhandle shape
extending west through the hershey
corridor
all the way into the easternmost portion
of the
taran basin i'm only discussing the
matter of the gerk turks north and west
of
china the gerk turks had quite an empire
by this time and with marauding armies
that fought all the way to persia
and byzantium so just keep in mind i'm
only mentioning
about the china part of the uh gerk
turks
there's much we can say about the sui
dynasty
unified china grand canal enhancing the
chinese military
stabilizing the food supply and their
embrace of buddhism
but just as important perhaps one of the
greatest achievements of the sway
was in digging and pouring the
foundation of the tang dynasty
the suede dynasty it wasn't the longest
lasting of dynasties but after three and
a half
hard centuries for china these two sway
rulers
wen and yang got the nation
all set up and ready for the good times
to roll
on that note let us take that well-worn
bookmark and stick it in
right here we'll start off strong next
episode with the tang dynasty
and china's triumphant return to
xinjiang you won't want to miss that i'm
sure
please consider supporting this
long-running family program that has
brought more than 150 hours of chinese
history content
to your pld your podcast listening
device
for going on ten years three bucks a
month is all
it'll cost you at patreon i already have
a
whole bunch of crazy stories in there
from the non-chp side of my surreal life
with more to come
plus early access to shows if you're so
inclined
patreon.com china history podcast i'll
make it easy for you and just put the
link in the show notes
and while i'm at it i'll also put a link
to the official chp paypal donation
center at paypal dot me
slash china history podcast for those of
you who
you know don't want to do the whole
patreon thing who just want to you know
throw me a few lara and be done with it
i thank you in advance and trust me
you'll get a personal thank you for me
when you donate
okay keep your masks on everyone and
your latex gloves close by
this is laszlo montgomery signing off
from los angeles california
wishing you all the best and praying for
your safety
because i care and because i'm hoping
you'll come back in two weeks time
for another exciting episode of the
china history podcast